added a list of tools for error management (#125751)
Azure/azure-content: articles/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-dead-letter-queues.md

ms.topic: concept-article
ms.date: 06/28/2024
ms.custom: "fasttrack-edit, devx-track-csharp"
#customer intent: As an architect or a developer, I want to understand how dead-lettering of messages work in Azure Service Bus.
---

# Overview of Service Bus dead-letter queues

Azure Service Bus queues and topic subscriptions provide a secondary subqueue, called a _dead-letter queue_ (DLQ). The dead-letter queue doesn't need to be explicitly created and can't be deleted or managed independent of the main entity.

This article describes dead-letter queues in Service Bus. Much of the discussion is illustrated by the [Dead-Letter queues sample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/samples/DeadLetterQueue) on GitHub.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

- If the destination queue or topic is disabled, the message is sent to the transfer dead letter queue (TDLQ) of the source queue.
- If the destination queue or entity exceeds the entity size, the message is sent to a TDLQ of the source queue.

## Sending dead-lettered messages to be reprocessed

Once you resolve the issue that caused the message to be dead lettered, you can resubmit it to the queue or topic to be reprocessed.
In some cases, if there are many messages in the dead-letter queue that need to be moved, [code like this](https://stackoverflow.com/a/68632602/151350) can help move them all at once. Operators often prefer having a user interface so they can troubleshoot which message types failed processing, from which source queues, and for what reasons, while still being able to resubmit batches of messages to be reprocessed.

### Available tools

> - [Azure Service Bus Explorer](./explorer.md) enable manual moving of messages between queues and topics. Allows you too peek trough the list of messages and resend them to be re-processed. It is available trough the Azure Portal, irespective of the SDK you are using to send messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Azure Service Bus Explorer](./explorer.md) enables manual moving of messages between queues and topics. It allows you to look through the list of messages and resend them to be re-processed. It's available through the Azure portal, regardless of the SDK you're using to send messages.
```

> - [ServicePulse with NServiceBus](https://docs.particular.net/servicepulse/intro-failed-messages) Streamline your error handling with this centralized dashboard. Quickly visualize, group, filter, and search errors, and efficiently retry individual or grouped messages. Available for NServiceBus endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ServicePulse with NServiceBus](https://docs.particular.net/servicepulse/intro-failed-messages) streamlines your error handling with this centralized dashboard. Quickly visualize, group, filter, and search errors, and efficiently retry individual or grouped messages. Available for NServiceBus endpoints.
```
